# GNAR_models_for_Irish_COVID-19_data
R code for Dissertation "Generalised Network Time Series models: comparison of network construction approaches in modelling the COVID-19 incidence in Ireland" by Stephanie Armbruster


The structure of the code is modular. The folder data has two subfolders COVID and Mumps with all relevant datasets.
Folder COVID includes:
• COVID-19_HPSC_full_week.csv: data set with daily cumulative COVID-19 incidence from Ordnance Survey Ireland, 2022
• ireland_covid_weekly.csv: data set after pre-processing
• ireland_shapefile.shp: shapefile for plotting network maps, generated by saving data downloaded from the GADM database
• county_towns_ireland.csv: data set with coordinates for Irish counties from the Ireland Cities Database on simplemaps
Folder Mumps includes:
• mumps.RData: data set with daily mumps incidence for the UK in 2005
• england_wales_shapefile.shp: shapefile for plotting network maps, generated by saving data downloaded from the GADM database3
The file functions.R includes all functions written to pre-process data, fit GNAR models, analyse residuals, plot BIC values etc. In order to incorporate the alternative weight- ing schemes, the functions GNARdesign(), GNARfit() and NofNeighbours() from the package GNAR had to be expanded. The adapted functions GNARdesign_weighting(), GNARfit_weighting() and NofNeighbours_named() are included in the files GNARdesign.R, GNARfit.R and NofNeighbours.R in the folder GNAR.
The file Replication_Knight_2016.R replicates the results from Knight et al., 2016.
The file COVID_Ireland_data_processing.R performs some initial data exploration, the data aggregation to a weekly level and the necessary smoothing for extreme peaks in COVID-19 incidence.
The COVID-19 networks are constructed and the GNAR models are fit and analysed in the file COVID_Ireland.R.
The file COVID_Ireland_regulations.R explores GNAR models fitted to the 5 data subsets which are constructed by splitting the original data set according to COVID-19 regulations.
